# insurrection-rts
Insurrection: Asymmetric Warfare


A 2-player RTS game where one player controls the Republic and one player controls the Insurgency. The Republic starts the game with a powerful military, a strong economy, and advanced weapons. Throughout the game, the Republic must manage its economy to afford more weapons and research new technologies. The Republic can employ propaganda to recruit more infantry and use technology to gather intelligence.
The Insurgency on the other hand starts out with a very small pack of guerilla fighters and limited technology but has a few elements working in its favour. For example, the Insurgency can be sneaky and capture towns by surprise. They can take hostages and bargain with the Republic. They can choose their style of revolution (theocratic, anarchist, fascist, communist, libertarian etc.) which affects things like recruitment and a town's likeliness to surrender without a fight. When the Insurgency captures a city/town, they take control of its resources including gun shops, strategic bases, and research labs. Win conditions are also different for the Insurgency. For the Republic to win they must eradicate all Insurgents. For the Insurgency to win, they just have to assassinate the President and cause the government to collapse. The Republic's headquarters is in plain sight but the Insurgency can hide their key leaders anywhere on the map.
Unlike an RTS like StarCraft, Insurrection isn't focused on micro or macro. Instead, the focus is on strategy and ethics. The Republic can employ ethically-questionable tactics such as torturing prisoners and wire-tapping phones for intelligence. However, they have to be careful because upsetting civilians too much may help recruitment for the Insurgency, especially if the Insurgency's ideology matches the civilians' frustration. For example, raising taxes or ignoring civil liberties in the name of security may benefit a libertarian Insurgency's recruitment, whereas too much disorder may benefit a fascist Insurgency. A poor town will be more likely to surrender to a communist Insurgency. Upsetting religious communities will make them more likely to join a theocratic Insurgency.
The Insurgency has to make ethical choices as well. For example, they can bomb industrial areas to hurt the Republic's economy but this makes it easier for the Republic to employ heavier propaganda. Propaganda makes local militias more hostile to Insurgents and helps Republic army recruitment. The Republic can get away with more drastic security measures if civilians are less likely to join the Insurgency.
